Now it's time to deploy
our front end of our application.
There's one quick change we need to make
and if you open up here withData.js,
you remember that we did this,
when we connect to our Apollo client,
we're checking if we're in development
and we're turning the endpoint,
otherwise returning the env node point itself.
So we need to swap that env.
You could also make this an environmental variable
but because it's the only thing, it's not worth doing.
For me I just want to put it in a config file.
So let's open up the config file, let's make a new one.
So export cost, let's call it prodEndpoint
and then inside of there you paste the end point
to your Yoga service either on now or on heroku.
Then what we'll do here is we'll say,
if its development will grab the regular end point
otherwise we'll do the prodEndpoint.
And we also need to import the prodEndpoint
from our config file, good.
That's all we need.
Close those two down, we're going
to go to our terminal here.
Make sure you are in the main folder.
So let's take a look here.
We'll type git remote-v.
You remember that we have our heroku back in here.
We're gonna do the same song and dance for the front end.
We'll type heroku apps create:
sickfits-yoga-prod
and we will call this sickfits-next-prod
or react-prod.
It's going to create a new git repo for us
and I'm gonna type git remote
add heroku-front end
and then paste in that URL that we have there.
Now if we type git remote-v, let's see now we have
our back-end and our front end.
So we can do the same subtree push
that we previously had done.
So let's go ahead and add everything that we just did;
git commit - m prod url.
Now before we push this git subtree up,
I need to explain how Next works in production
because we've been running npm run dev.
If you take at look this, it will run just next on port 7777
but when we run next start,
it actually has to be built at that point.
So if you open up your folder,
you're going to see that there is a .next folder
and inside of there is all the information.
However, if I were to delete that and run npm start,
It doesn't work because there's
that next folder is not there.
So we have to run npm run build first
and that's going to create that .next folder for us.
And that's where the actual build of our application
is getting dumped into.
The problem with that is that,
you don't want to put this .next on a git repo
because it's just a bundled version,
it's a compiled version of it
but because heroku uses git to push it,
we're in sort of a pickle where I don't want this part
of my report but I do want to push it to heroku.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna add a little hook
for heroku that is going to actually build this for us
but on their server.
So what we do here, is you just go down to your scripts
in your package json of your front-end
and you add a new script called heroku-postbuild
and that's heroku is going to check for this
and we're going to manually run ourselves next build
and that will just run that before it actually
goes ahead and starts it.
The other thing we want to do is modify our start command
because heroku is going to pass us a port.
So we need to tell it which port to listen on.
So say -p $PORT
and heroku will run the start command
and pass the port and tell it
what port to actually...
I believe it will proxy at over a port 80 or 443 for us
but it will run it on its own internal port.
So we added the start, we added the heroku post build.
Now if we go here, we git add everything we commit it.
Then we should be able to make sure
you're in the main folder not the front end folder.
we're gonna get subtree push prefix front-end
that means we're going to push up the front end folder
and then we're going to push
to the remote called heroku-front-end and we're going
to push our local branch of master to that.
Now, we start seeing the remote pop up here
and we should see that it is going
to run the build command for us
before it actually runs the start command.
So we are storing the cache, building dependencies.
If you deploy more than once,
it won't do the whole npm install thing for you
which is really nice because then it goes
a little bit quicker.
Here we go, running heroku post build,
it's running next build for us which is great.
It'll probably take a minute or two
to actually build the application
and then it should run the start command for us.
See that it's now launching
and we should be able to go to this and see if it works.
There might be a couple more things you need to iron out.
Let's take a quick look here.
And we get access to fetch
from this has been blocked
and that's because we're trying to use
this sixfits-next-prod.herokuapp.comm
and our current front-end URL set to localhost 777.
If this core stuff is making you frustrated,
you can turn it off, just be aware
of what turning it off is.
There is many use cases for turning cors off,
if you want to be able to pull it from any website
but if you're just trying to get it to work,
you can turn it off by going to your server side
and commenting out, this whole object right here.
And then you can also go to your client side
and go to the withdata and remove the fetch options.
I believe that will remove all of your cors options.
But let's actually fix it properly,
just to have best security we can.
So we'll go here, we'll edit this,
we'll give it the URL of our front-end, I'll save it.
You also have the ability, I should say, in your back-end
instead of passing it just one origin,
you can pass it in an array of origins as well as a regex.
So if you wanted to do like start.herokuapp.com
or something like that to be able to pass it, you could.
These are just express cors options,
so you just have to look up express cors
and then look at all the options.
Now when you do change this,
you do need to reboot your server-side.
So we're gonna restart that
and then while we wait for that,
we'll just refresh this a couple times
until we see it working.
Looks like we get one new error here,
it cannot read field orders on type of user
and this is actually because I forgot.
If we go to our schema.graphql,
I forgot to put the orders here.
So we'll say orders is an array of order item
and neither will be required so that it will be empty,
if we don't have any.
Then we'll have to go ahead and redeploy our back-end again.
So get add everything git commit order schema
and then we will get subtree push the back-end up.
That should make us be able to refresh this
and sign up to our actual application.
Looks like it redeployed.
So now if we refresh this, we do see our application
with no items in it.
We can go ahead and sign up for an account.
There we go, we're signed in.
You can probably go ahead and try sell something.
That is it and up and running.
If we want to host it on now, it's very similar.
If we go to our front-end,
we just need to take this -p $PORT site who's built now.
They also have built Next, so it just works.
You don't have to pass a port, you just remove that.
We'll go over to our front-end here.
Make sure you go into the front-end folder
and then you just type now.
That's going to go ahead and deploy it
and it's going to apply it to this URL here.
We can go ahead and visit it.
While we wait for that to actually deploy,
let's take this URL and change that
in our front-end URL here.
Give it a save.
We're gonna reboot our back-end while we wait
for the front-end to deploy.
You see that it's running next build already for us,
not because we have any hook or anything
just because now seems to take a lot of the setup
for out of it for you and it knows to run the build command
before you actually start the thing.
And after a quick second, it redirects us.
Let's open up this real quick.
We get the blocked URL here and maybe
that is because, did we put the proper URL in here?
Oh maybe don't put the forward slash on there.
Save Changes, restart.
Now when I refresh the page,
you'll see that we've got everything up and running
and I'm able to see that earlier one that I created.
So that's deploying the front end.
You do really need to make sure
that you have all that cors stuff set up.
It can be a bit of a pain but it's well worth
investing a little bit of time in making sure
that is all up and running.
So hopefully you enjoyed that.
We'll see in the next little wrap-up video.